Streamlit migration Guide (#5027)
holoviz/panel: doc/how_to/migrate/from_streamlit.md

```bash
panel serve home.py page1.py page2.ipynb --index=home
```

## Session State

Session state (and callbacks) were added to Streamlit as an after thought
to enable sharing variables between re-runs and across apps inside a multipage app.

Panels execution model is very different and session state is not really a topic.

### Streamlit Session State Example

```python
import random
from uuid import uuid4

import streamlit as st

st.session_state.setdefault("rows", {})

def create_row(hex_id=None):
    if hex_id is None:
        hex_id = uuid4().hex
        value = random.randint(0, 100)
        st.session_state.rows[hex_id] = value
    else:
        value = st.session_state.rows[hex_id]

    st.number_input("Enter a number", value=value, key=f"num_{hex_id}")

st.title("Dynamically add new rows")

button_cols = st.columns(2)
with button_cols[0]:
    add_row = st.button("Add new row", use_container_width=True)
with button_cols[1]:
    clear_rows = st.button("Clear all rows", use_container_width=True)

if clear_rows:
    st.session_state.rows = {}

for hex_id in st.session_state.rows.keys():
    create_row(hex_id=hex_id)

if add_row:
    create_row()
```

> ![Streamlit Session State Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/248444403-3e9548a5-71a6-4154-8e85-b9d9e08b9111.png)

Author: Please upload .png and replace link @philippjfr

With Streamlit you need session state to keep track of the dynamically created `rows`.

### Panel Session State Example

```python
import random

import panel as pn
pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width")

> def create_row(_):

Author: Would make Panel buttons so much easier to explain and use if they could take callbacks without arguments too @philippjfr

    value = random.randint(0, 100)
    row = pn.widgets.TextInput(name="Enter a number", value=str(value))
    rows.append(row)

rows = pn.Column()
add_row = pn.widgets.Button(name="Add new row", on_click=create_row)

> clear_rows = pn.widgets.Button(name="Clear all rows", on_click=lambda _: rows.clear())

Author: Would make Panel buttons so much easier to explain and use if they could take callbacks without arguments too @philippjfr 

Why do I have to use and explain how to use a lambda function in this example? It just confuses users.

Reviewer: Agreed, but it would indeed be nice if you could just do `on_click=rows.clear`.

> clear_rows = pn.widgets.Button(name="Clear all rows", on_click=lambda _: rows.clear())

Author: Thanks. I am a little hesitant to comitting because this version has the issue of using the `_` as a function argument. I don't think beginners are familiar with that either. I've never been working with any python framework that is creating functions with an `_`. Its just so hard to explain.

> clear_rows = pn.widgets.Button(name="Clear all rows", on_click=lambda _: rows.clear())

Author: What do you think @philippjfr . Is it better? For now?

> clear_rows = pn.widgets.Button(name="Clear all rows", on_click=lambda _: rows.clear())

Reviewer: No I think it should be called `event`, even if it's unused.

> clear_rows = pn.widgets.Button(name="Clear all rows", on_click=lambda _: rows.clear())

Reviewer 2: Okay updated the code suggestion.

> clear_rows = pn.widgets.Button(name="Clear all rows", on_click=lambda _: rows.clear())

Reviewer: Explanatory material is not production code and does not have to follow strict linting rules. It is also not weird or unreasonable for an `on_click` handler to receive events, e.g. see:

- Dash: https://dash.plotly.com/dash-html-components/button
- ipywidgets: https://ipywidgets.readthedocs.io/en/latest/examples/Widget%20Events.html#example

Not objecting to having both be supported by inspecting the call signature but there's also such a thing as underestimating users and I'd consider the friction here very minor.

> clear_rows = pn.widgets.Button(name="Clear all rows", on_click=lambda _: rows.clear())

Author: The problem is also that very often the function is coming from some Python framework or some code you have created before anyone though about Panel and UIs. Why can I not just run that function when clicking a button. Why do I have to wrap it in a function or lambda? Its friction.

main = pn.Column("# Dynamically add new rows", pn.Row(add_row, clear_rows), rows)

pn.template.BootstrapTemplate(main=[main], main_max_width="600px").servable()
```

As the Panel script is only executed once per session the `rows` objects will keep track of your
*session state*.

> ![Panel Session State Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/248446319-ffce4caf-f7b4-48ff-9e26-4edd4ff78fe5.png)

Author: Please upload image and replace link @philippjfr

# Migrate from Streamlit

This guide addresses how to migrate from Streamlit to Panel via examples.

This how-to guide can also be used as

- an alternative *introduction to Panel* guide if you are already familiar with Streamlit.
- a means of comparing Streamlit and Panel.

---

## Hello World

Lets start by converting a *Hello World* application.

### Streamlit Hello World Example

In Streamlit a *Hello World* application looks like

```python
import streamlit as st

st.write("Hello World")
```

You *serve* and *show* the app with *autoreload* via

```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

### Panel Hello World Example

In Panel this looks like

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

pn.panel("Hello World").servable()
```

We use `pn.extension` to configure your application.

- We set the `sizing_mode` to `stretch_width` to get the *responsive* behaviour you expect from
Streamlit apps.
- We set the `template` to `bootstrap` to wrap your application in a nice template as you expect
from Streamlit apps. If you don't set a template you will get a blank template to add your
components to. You can see the available templates in the

> [Templates Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#templates) of the

Reviewer 3: I believe we prefer not to link to the website directly, you should be able to see how it's done in other guides.

#### Panel Multiple Updates Example

With Panel you will use a *generator function* to update a component multiple times during code execution.

```python
```

![Panel Multiple Updates Examples](https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/panel_runner_example.gif)

You will notice that we use the `pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner` to indicate the activity.

#### Panel Multiple Updates Alternative Indicator Example

An alternative to using an *indicator* would be to change the `.disabled` and `.loading` parameters of the `calculation_input` and `run_input`.

```python
import time
import random

import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")
pn.state.template.param.update(site="Panel", title="Calculation Runner")

def notify_choice(calculation):
    return f"You chose: {calculation}"

def calculation_a():
    time.sleep(2)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def calculation_b():
    time.sleep(1)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def run_calculation(running, calculation):
    if not running:
        yield "Calculation did not run yet"
        return # This will break the execution

    calc = calculation_a if calculation == "A" else calculation_b

>     with run_input.param.set(loading=True):

Reviewer: Relies on param 2.0 (we hope to release next week).

To access the value of the slider in Panel, you would need to call `bins.value`.

For more info about the `IntSlider` check out the
[`IntSlider` Guide](../../reference/widgets/IntSlider.md).

The app looks like

![Panel Widgets Example](../../_static/images/panel_widgets_example.png)

### Input Migration Steps

You should

- replace your Streamlit `st.some_widget` function with the corresponding Panel
`pn.widgets.SomeWidget` class.

You can identify the corresponding widget via the
[Widgets Section](../../reference/index.md#widgets) of the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md).

## Show Activity

Panel supports many ways of indicating activity

- Indicators. See the [Indicators Section](../../reference/index.md#indicators)
of the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md).
- `disabled`/ `loading` parameters on Panel components
- `loading_indicator` parameter for `pn.panel` or `pn.config`. If `True` a
loading indicator will be shown on your *bound functions* when they are re-run.

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

> SPIN_CSS = """

Author: Being able to transform rotate icons could be added to Panel one day @philippjfr ?

            pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(
                value=True, height=25, width=25, color="secondary"
            ),
        ),
    ),
    pn.Column(
        "## Progress",
        pn.Column(
            pn.indicators.Progress(
                name="Progress", value=20, width=150, bar_color="secondary"
            ),
            pn.indicators.Progress(
                name="Progress", active=True, width=150, bar_color="secondary"
            ),
        ),
    ),
    pn.Column(
        "## Disabled",
        pn.Column(
            pn.widgets.Button(name="Loading", icon="progress", disabled=True),
            pn.widgets.Button(
                name="Loading", icon="progress", disabled=True, stylesheets=[SPIN_CSS]
            ),
        ),
    ),
    pn.Column(
        "## Loading",
        pn.Column(
            pn.widgets.Button(name="Loading", loading=True, button_type="primary"),
            pn.WidgetBox(
                pn.widgets.Checkbox(name="Checked", value=True),
                pn.widgets.Button(name="Submit", button_type="primary"),
                loading=True, margin=(10,10),
            ),
        ),
    ),
).servable()
```

The app looks like

> ![Show Activity](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/246325570-11484dd6-4523-401f-b709-6c0cc7996410.gif)

Author: This is a new gif that needs uploading to cdn @philippjfr .

> # Migrate from Streamlit

Author: This is the main contribution

### Panel Hello World Example

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

pn.panel("Hello World").servable()
```

You use `pn.extension` to configure the application.

- You set the `sizing_mode` to `stretch_width` to get the *responsive* behaviour you expect from
Streamlit apps.
- You set the `template` to `bootstrap` to wrap your application in a nice looking template as you
expect from Streamlit apps. If you don't set a template you will get a blank template to add your
components to. You can see the available templates in the
[Templates Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#templates) of the
[Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html).

You use `pn.panel` similarly to `st.write` to *magically* display
Python objects like (markdown) strings, dataframes, plots and more. Check out the
[`pn.panel` API Reference](https://panel.holoviz.org/api/panel.pane.html#panel.pane.panel) for the
details.

You use `.servable` to specify the Panel objects you want to add the Panel *template* when
served as a web app.

> You *serve* and *show* the app with *autoreload* via

Author: Changed to "You *serve* and *show* the app in your browser with *autoreload* via"

```bash

> panel serve app.py --autoreload --show

Author: History. Then we would also have to find a mechanism (--disable-auto reload?) to disable the auto reload when deploying.

> panel serve app.py --autoreload --show

Reviewer 2: I guess should've done the change in v1.0.0 since I guess it could be breaking.

> panel serve app.py --autoreload --show

Author: @philippjfr . Feel free to comment or mark this one resolved.

> panel serve app.py --autoreload --show

Reviewer: `--autoreload` adds overhead that I don't think should be there in production. I'd be -1 on making it the default.

```

See the [Command Line Guide](https://panel.holoviz.org/how_to/server/commandline.html) for more
command line options.

The application looks like

![Panel Hello World Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243343688-e6212faa-7b05-4686-b113-b67cd21e1063.png)

### Basic Migration Steps

You should replace

- `import streamlit as st` with `import panel as pn` and
- `st.write` with `pn.panel`.

You will also have to

> - add `pn.extension` to configure your Panel application via arguments like `sizing_mode` and `template`.

Author: I was thinking that Streamlit users would not be migrating to a non-responsive app without a template.

How would you formulate this @ahuang11 ?

> - add `pn.extension` to configure your Panel application via arguments like `sizing_mode` and `template`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe just rewording a bit?
"""
You might be interested in

- configure the sizing_mode to stretch_width in order to achieve responsiveness.
- incorporate a template to maintain a consistent visual appearance.
"""

> - add `pn.extension` to configure your Panel application via arguments like `sizing_mode` and `template`.

Author: I'm now using a formulation close to this.

- add `.servable` to the Panel objects you want to include in your apps *template* when served as
a web app.

For production you will also have to

- Migrate some of your app configuration to `panel serve` command line options or environment
variables.

You won't have to

> - Provide your email or

Author: Yes. They ask for it the first time you start Streamlit. But you can ignore the request, I.e. opt out.

- opt out of telemetry data collection.

We have never collected or had plans to collect telemetry data from our users apps.

> ## Outputs

Author: Input/ output is probably a terminology that I have from Gradio. They use it all the time.

In Panel the objects that can display your Python objects are called *panes*. With Panels *panes*
you will be able to

- get notifications about interactions like click events on your plots and tables and react to them.
- use unique data visualization ecosystems like HoloViz, ipywidgets and VTK.

Check out the
[Panes Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#panes) of
the [Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html) for the full list of
*panes*.

### Streamlit Matplotlib Example

```python
import numpy as np
import streamlit as st

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(8,4))
ax.hist(data, bins=20)

st.pyplot(fig)
```

The app looks like

![Streamlit Matplotlib Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243348167-4d2a3c36-59dc-4df5-b266-84dd1837f2b6.png)

### Panel Matplotlib Example

You will find Panels output *panes* in `pn.pane` module.

```python
import panel as pn
import numpy as np

from matplotlib.figure import Figure

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

> data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
> fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
> ax = fig.subplots()
> ax.hist(data, bins=20)

Reviewer 2: To keep it consistent, unless there's an issue doing it this way?
```suggestion
data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(8,4))
ax.hist(data, bins=20)
```

Reviewer 2: Oh I just saw the note below. Maybe the note can be moved above.

Author: I've moved it above

pn.pane.Matplotlib(fig, format='svg', sizing_mode='scale_both').servable()
```

We use Matplotlibs `Figure` interface instead of the `pyplot` interface to
avoid memory leaks if you forget to close the figure. This is all described in the
[Matplotlib Guide](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/panes/Matplotlib.html).

The app looks like

![Panel Matplotlib Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243348449-233d1dcc-fdd3-4907-9085-50bf0772065f.png)

### Output Migration Steps

You should

- replace your Streamlit `st.some_object` function with the corresponding Panel
`pn.pane.SomeObject` class.

You can identify the corresponding Panel *pane* in the
[Panes Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#panes) of the
[Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html).

> ## Inputs

Reviewer 2: Accepting user inputs

Author: I'm now using this title.

> In Panel the objects that can provide you with input values from users are called *widgets*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Panel the objects that can accept user inputs are called *widgets*.
```

Panel provides widgets similar to the ones you know from Streamlit and some unique ones in addition.

Check out the
[Widgets Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#widgets) of
the [Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html) for the full list of
*widgets*.

### Streamlit Integer Slider Example

```python
import streamlit as st

bins = st.slider(value=20, min_value=10, max_value=30, step=1, label="Bins")

st.write(bins)
```

The app looks like

![Streamlit Widgets Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243349378-a27fa7bd-b8dc-4b30-85f0-684a74ec40cf.png)

### Panel Integer Slider Example

You will find Panels input *widgets* in `pn.widgets` module.

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

> bins = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1, name="Bins").servable()
> 
> pn.pane.Str(bins).servable()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
bins = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1, name="Bins")

pn.Column(bins, pn.pane.Str(bins)).servable()
```

```

> If you debug and inspect the code you will notice a big difference. Streamlits `bins` value is an
> `integer` while Panels `bins` value is an `IntSlider`. This is the first real indication that
> Streamlit and Panel works in very different ways.

Reviewer 2: I think this can be clarified further:
```suggestion
If you check the type of the variables, you will notice a key difference. Streamlit's `bins` returns the value of the slider as an `integer` while Panel's `bins` returns an `IntSlider`!

To access the value of the slider in Panel, you would need to call `bins.value`.
```

`pn.widgets.SomeWidget` class.

You can identify the corresponding widget via the
[Widgets Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#widgets) of the
[Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html).

## Layouts

*Layouts* helps you organize your *panes* and *widgets*.

Panel provides layouts similar to the ones you know from Streamlit and some unique ones.

Check out the [Layouts Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#layouts) of the
[Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html) for the full list of *layouts*.

### Streamlit Layout Example

```python
import streamlit as st

col1, col2 = st.columns(2)

with col1:
    st.image("https://streamlit.io/images/brand/streamlit-logo-primary-colormark-darktext.png")
    st.write("# A faster way to build and share data apps")

with col2:
    st.image("https://panel.holoviz.org/_images/logo_horizontal_light_theme.png")
    st.write("# The powerful data exploration & web app framework for Python")
```

The app looks like

![Streamlit Layout Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243353648-add1e7af-26ba-428b-ba47-2f602ff3ce93.png)

> I would love to align the images (and texts) but I could not find functionality like *row*, *margin* or *spacing* to do this.

Reviewer 2: Should mention panel is capable of this.

Author: Yes. But I hold back as the migration guide should focus on how to migrate. If it's also comparing Panel to Streamlit it should be 4 times as long.

We have a separate comparison to do the comparison.

> ### Panel Layout Example

Reviewer 2: Maybe this should come before widgets?

Author: done

You will find Panels *layouts* in the `pn` module.

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

col1 = pn.Column(
    pn.pane.Image("https://streamlit.io/images/brand/streamlit-logo-primary-colormark-darktext.png"),

>     pn.panel("# A faster way to build and share data apps")

Reviewer 2: I don't know if it's best practice, but technically, it's not necessary to call pn.panel here.
```suggestion
   "# A faster way to build and share data apps"
```

)
col2 = pn.Column(
    pn.pane.Image("https://panel.holoviz.org/_images/logo_horizontal_light_theme.png"),
    pn.panel("# The powerful data exploration & web app framework for Python"),
)

pn.Row(col1, col2).servable()
```

Panels `Column` and `Row` are *list like* objects. So you can use familiar methods like `.append`,
`.pop` and `[]` indexing when you work with them. For the details check out the
[`Column` Guide](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/layouts/Column.html) and
the [`Row` Guide](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/layouts/Row.html).

The app looks like

![Panel Layout Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243362603-45ba78a4-d67b-43bc-b3c2-386105fe6ed8.png)

### Layout Migration Steps

You should

- replace your Streamlit `st.some_layout` function with the corresponding Panel
`pn.SomeLayout` class.

You can identify the relevant layout to migrate to in the
[Layouts Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#layouts) of the
[Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html).

> 

Reviewer 2: I think we should offer some insight that Panel has a lot more kinds of layouts than Streamlit like FlexBox, GridSpec, etc.

Author: Yes. But would be something for the comparison background article.

Reviewer 2: I think a brief mention won't hurt.

Author: Feel free to contribute an improvement 😄

> ### Template Migration Steps

Reviewer 2: Not sure if this is appropriately titled.

Maybe Configuring Template?

Author: I changed to *Adding Style with Templates* to make this header similar to other headers.

When migrating you first have to choose which template to use

- None (default)
- A built in like *vanilla*, *bootstrap*, *material* or *fast*. See the
[Templates Section](../../reference/index#templates) of the
[Components Guide](../../reference/index).
- A custom template

> Then you have to configure it.

Reviewer 2: Not entirely sure if this is necessary in the Migration guide.

Author: All the sections have the same structure. They end up with a bulleted list of steps. It is a migration guide 😄 . Not a comparison or introduction to ... guide.

*sidebar*, *header* and *main* area.

We have

- set the *header* background, site and title parameters
- set the default *theme* to `dark`

The app streams the current date and time using an *async generator function*.
""",
).servable(target="sidebar")

async def stream():
    for i in range(0, 100):
        await sleep(0.25)
        yield datetime.now()

pn.Column("The current date and time:", *(stream for i in range(5))).servable(
    target="main"
)

pn.state.template.param.update(
    site="Panel",
    title="Template Example",
    header_background="#E91E63",
    accent_base_color="#E91E63",
)
```

The app looks like

![Panel Template Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243438919-edce17a0-48b6-451d-9be3-d86eff5cc166.gif)

## Show Activity

Panel supports two ways of indicating activity

- Indicators. See the [Indicators Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#indicators)
of the [Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html).
- `disabled`/ `loading` parameters on Panel components

We will show you how to migrate your Streamlit activity indicators to Panel in the

> [Interactivity Section](#interactivity) just below.

Reviewer 2: Maybe this can come after Interactivity and show an example of using `loading_indicator`

`pn.panel(pn.bind(...), loading_indicator=True)`

Author: I thought about this. But could not see how I could do this in a way that made sense to me. Feel free to contribute an improvement.

complex apps to support more use cases.

### Basic Interactivity Example

This example will show you how to migrate code that produces a single result
and only updates the UI once the code execution has completed.

#### Streamlit Basic Interactivity Example

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
import streamlit as st

from matplotlib.figure import Figure

data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
ax = fig.subplots()
bins = st.slider(value=20, min_value=10, max_value=30, step=1, label="Bins")
ax.hist(data, bins=bins)

st.pyplot(fig)
```

The app looks like

![Streamlit Basic Interactivity Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243358295-c26e90c2-0053-4441-9b98-2426d6d1a8e1.gif)

The entire script is rerun *top to bottom* when you change the `bins` slider.

#### Panel Basic Interactivity Example

```python
import panel as pn
import numpy as np

from matplotlib.figure import Figure

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

def plot(data, bins):
    fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
    ax = fig.subplots()
    ax.hist(data, bins=bins)
    return fig

data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)

> bins = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1, name="Bins")
> bplot = pn.bind(plot, data, bins)

Reviewer 2: Maybe show it works with kwargs?
```suggestion
bins_input = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1, name="Bins")
bplot = pn.bind(plot, data=data, bins=bins_input)
```

pn.Column(bins, bplot).servable()
```

Only the `plot` function is rerun when you change the `bins` slider. You specify that
by *binding* the `plot` function to the `bins` widget using `pn.bind`.

The app looks like

![Panel Basic Interactivity Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243358311-04ed5189-1a79-4932-97ea-00898c27f283.gif)

You might notice that the Panel app updates much quicker and more smoothly than the Streamlit app.
This is due to fundamental differences in architectures. With Panel you will be able to
develop very smooth and performant apps.

### Multiple Updates Example

This example will show you how to migrate code that produces a single result
and updates the UI multiple times during the code execution.

#### Streamlit Multiple Updates Example

```python

> import random
> import time
> 
> import streamlit as st
> 
> 
> def calculation_a():
>     time.sleep(1.5)
>     return random.randint(0, 100)
> 
> 
> def calculation_b():
>     time.sleep(1.5)
>     return random.randint(0, 100)
> 
> 
> st.write("# Calculation Runner")
> 
> option = st.radio("Which calculation would you like to perform?", ("A", "B"))
> 
> st.write("You chose: ", option)
> if option == "A":
>     if st.button("Press to run calculation"):
>         with st.spinner("Running... Please wait!"):
>             time_start = time.perf_counter()
>             result = calculation_a()
>             time_end = time.perf_counter()
>             st.write(f"""Done!
> 
> Result: {result}
> 
> The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete""")
> 
>     else:
>         st.write("Calculation A did not run yet")
> 
> elif option == "B":
>     if st.button("Press to run calculation"):
>         with st.spinner("Running... Please wait!"):
>             time_start = time.perf_counter()
>             result = calculation_b()
>             time_end = time.perf_counter()
>             st.write(f"""Done!
> 
> Result: {result}
> 
> The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete""")
>     else:
>         st.write("Calculation B did not run yet")

Reviewer 2: Didn't test this, but I think you can write it like this?

Also, to highlight diff between A and B, I changed the nums a bit.

```suggestion
import random
import time
from textwrap import dedent

import streamlit as st

def calculation_a():
    time.sleep(1.5)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def calculation_b():
    time.sleep(3.5)
    return random.randint(-100, 0)

st.write("# Calculation Runner")
option = st.radio("Which calculation would you like to perform?", ("A", "B"))
st.write("You chose: ", option)
if st.button("Press to run calculation"):
    with st.spinner("Running... Please wait!"):
        time_start = time.perf_counter()
        result = calculation_a() if option == "A" else calculation_b()
        time_end = time.perf_counter()
        message = dedent(
            f"""
            Done!
            Result: {result}
            The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete
            """
        )
else:
    st.write(f"Calculation {option} did not run yet")
```

Author: I've used your suggestion but without the `dedent` function.

```

The app looks like

![Streamlit multiple updates example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243399616-4f172e4b-ace9-4761-b19a-757a532bafbc.gif)

#### Panel Multiple Updates Example

With Panel you will use a *generator function* to update a component multiple times during code execution.

```python

> import panel as pn
> import time
> import random
> 
> pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")
> 
> pn.state.template.param.update(site="Panel", title="Calculation Runner")
> 
> def calculation_message(calculation):
>     return f"You chose: {calculation}"
> 
> def calculation_a():
>     time.sleep(1.5)
>     return random.randint(0, 100)
> 
> 
> def calculation_b():
>     time.sleep(1.5)
>     return random.randint(0, 100)
> 
> def calculation_result(running, calculation):
>     if not running:
>         yield "Calculation did not run yet"
>         return # This will break the execution
> 
>     yield pn.Row(pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"), "Running... Please wait!", align="center")
> 
>     if calculation=="A":
>         func = calculation_a
>     else:
>         func = calculation_b
> 
>     time_start = time.perf_counter()
>     result = func()
>     time_end = time.perf_counter()
>     yield f"""Done!
> 
> Result: {result}
> 
> The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete"""
> 
> 
> calculation_input = pn.widgets.RadioBoxGroup(name="Calculation", options=["A", "B"])
> run_input = pn.widgets.Button(name="Press to run calculation", icon="caret-right", button_type="primary", sizing_mode="fixed", width=250)
> 
> pn.Column(
>     "Which calculation would you like to perform?",
>     calculation_input,
>     pn.bind(calculation_message, calculation_input),
>     run_input,
>     pn.bind(calculation_result, run_input, calculation_input)

Reviewer 2: Renamed functions to verbs and some dedent cleanup

```suggestion
import time
import random
from textwrap import dedent

import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")
pn.state.template.param.update(site="Panel", title="Calculation Runner")

def notify_choice(calculation):
    return f"You chose: {calculation}"

def calculation_a():
    time.sleep(1.5)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def calculation_b():
    time.sleep(1.5)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def run_calculation(running, calculation):
    if not running:
        yield "Calculation did not run yet"
        return  # This will break the execution
    yield pn.Row(
        pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"),
        "Running... Please wait!",
        align="center",
    )
    if calculation == "A":
        func = calculation_a
    else:
        func = calculation_b
    time_start = time.perf_counter()
    result = func()
    time_end = time.perf_counter()
    yield dedent(
        f"""
        Done!
        Result: {result}
        The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete
        """
    )

calculation_input = pn.widgets.RadioBoxGroup(name="Calculation", options=["A", "B"])
run_input = pn.widgets.Button(
    name="Press to run calculation",
    icon="caret-right",
    button_type="primary",
    sizing_mode="fixed",
    width=250,
)
pn.Column(
    "Which calculation would you like to perform?",
    calculation_input,
    pn.bind(notify_choice, calculation_input),
    run_input,
    pn.bind(run_calculation, run_input, calculation_input),
).servable()
```

).servable()
```

We use the `pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner` to indicate the activity. You find the full list of indicators in the [Indicators Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#indicators) of the [Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html).

The app looks like

![Panel Multiple Updates Examples](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243399714-04345c38-44a8-4bc0-b111-a8d26f03484b.gif)

#### Panel Multiple Updates Alternative Indicator Example

An alternative to using an *indicator* would be to change the `.disabled` and `.loading` parameters of the `calculation_input` and `run_input`.

```python

> import panel as pn
> import time
> import random
> 
> pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")
> 
> pn.state.template.param.update(site="Panel", title="Calculation Runner")
> 
> def calculation_message(calculation):
>     return f"You chose: {calculation}"
> 
> def calculation_a():
>     time.sleep(1.5)
>     return random.randint(0, 100)
> 
> 
> def calculation_b():
>     time.sleep(1.5)
>     return random.randint(0, 100)
> 
> def calculation_result(running, calculation):
>     if not running:
>         yield "Calculation did not run yet"
>         return # This will break the execution
> 
>     calculation_input.disabled=calculation_input.loading=run_input.disabled=run_input.loading=True
> 
>     if calculation=="A":
>         func = calculation_a
>     else:
>         func = calculation_b
> 
>     time_start = time.perf_counter()
>     result = func()
>     time_end = time.perf_counter()
>     calculation_input.disabled=calculation_input.loading=run_input.disabled=run_input.loading=False
>     yield f"""Done!
> 
> Result: {result}
> 
> The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete"""
> 
> 
> calculation_input = pn.widgets.RadioBoxGroup(name="Calculation", options=["A", "B"])
> run_input = pn.widgets.Button(name="Press to run calculation", icon="caret-right", button_type="primary", sizing_mode="fixed", width=250)
> 
> pn.Column(
>     "Which calculation would you like to perform?",
>     calculation_input,
>     pn.bind(calculation_message, calculation_input),
>     run_input,
>     pn.bind(calculation_result, run_input, calculation_input)
> ).servable()

Reviewer 2: I think if you activate loading, it's automatically disabled; I also wrap try/finally so in case the code breaks in the middle somewhere, it won't stay loading.

```suggestion
import time
import random
from textwrap import dedent

import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")
pn.state.template.param.update(site="Panel", title="Calculation Runner")

def notify_choice(calculation):
    return f"You chose: {calculation}"

def calculation_a():
    time.sleep(1.5)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def calculation_b():
    time.sleep(1.5)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def run_calculation(running, calculation):
    if not running:
        yield "Calculation did not run yet"
        return  # This will break the execution
    try:
        calculation_input.loading = True
        run_input.loading = True
        yield pn.Row(
            pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"),
            "Running... Please wait!",
            align="center",
        )
        if calculation == "A":
            func = calculation_a
        else:
            func = calculation_b
        time_start = time.perf_counter()
        result = func()
        time_end = time.perf_counter()
        yield dedent(
            f"""
            Done!
            Result: {result}
            The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete
            """
        )
    finally:
        calculation_input.loading = False
        run_input.loading = False

calculation_input = pn.widgets.RadioBoxGroup(name="Calculation", options=["A", "B"])
run_input = pn.widgets.Button(
    name="Press to run calculation",
    icon="caret-right",
    button_type="primary",
    sizing_mode="fixed",
    width=250,
)
pn.Column(
    "Which calculation would you like to perform?",
    calculation_input,
    pn.bind(notify_choice, calculation_input),
    run_input,
    pn.bind(run_calculation, run_input, calculation_input),
).servable()
```

Author: Thanks. I think its a good idea. We have to consider whether we provide a minimum amount of text as you would often see in the Streamlit documentation or we would like to provider longer but more robust code.

```

The app looks like

![Panel Multiple Updates Alternative Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243402005-0e520ed0-a41f-4339-a854-14ff31cb04ce.gif)

### Multiple Results Example

Sometimes you want to output multiple results individually as soon as they are ready.

This is for example the case for Large (AI) Language Models that generates one token after the other.

#### Streamlit Multiple Results Example

```python
import random
import time

import streamlit as st

run = st.button("Run model")

def model():
    time.sleep(1)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

if not run:
    st.write("The model has not run yet")
else:
    with st.spinner("Running..."):
        for i in range(0,10):
            result = model()
            st.write(f"Result {i}: {result}")
```

The app looks like

![Streamlit Multiple Results Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243421817-bcd0d8d4-89af-4ef4-8924-f20a8d7a8d33.gif)

#### Panel Multiple Results Example

With Panel you will use a *generator function* to display multiple results from code execution as soon as they are ready.

```python

> import random
> import time
> 
> import panel as pn
> 
> pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")
> 
> run_input = pn.widgets.Button(name="Run model")
> 
> def model():
>     time.sleep(1)
>     return random.randint(0, 100)
> 
> def results(running):
>     if not running:
>         yield "Calculation did not run yet"
>         return # This will break the execution
> 
>     run_input.disabled=True
>     loading_indicator = pn.Row(pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"), "Running... Please wait!", align="center")
>     layout = pn.Column(loading_indicator)
>     yield layout # This will display the layout
> 
>     for i in range(0,10):
>         result = model()
>         message = f"Result {i}: {result}"
>         layout.append(message)
>         yield layout # This will force the UI to update
> 
>     layout.pop(0)
>     run_input.disabled=False
>     yield layout # This will force the UI to update
> 
> 
> pn.Column(run_input, pn.bind(results, run_input)).servable()

Reviewer 2: Wrap try/finally
```suggestion
import random
import time
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width")
run_input = pn.widgets.Button(name="Run model")

def model():
    time.sleep(1)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def results(running):
    if not running:
        yield "Calculation did not run yet"
        return  # This will break the execution
    try:
        run_input.disabled = True
        loading_indicator = pn.Row(
            pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(
                value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"
            ),
            "Running... Please wait!",
            align="center",
        )
        layout = pn.Column(loading_indicator)
        yield layout  # This will display the layout
        for i in range(0, 10):
            result = model()
            message = f"Result {i}: {result}"
            layout.append(message)
            yield layout
        layout.pop(0)
    finally:
        run_input.disabled = False
    yield layout  # This will force the UI to update

pn.Column(run_input, pn.bind(results, run_input)).servable()
```

- *global cache* (`pn.state.as_cached`) to speed up expensive, bound functions or to share
Python objects globally. I.e. across user sessions.

Check out the [Cache How-To Guides](https://panel.holoviz.org/how_to/caching/index.html) for the
details.

### Session Cache Example

This session will show you how to cache for a user session.

#### Streamlit Session Cache Example

```python
from time import sleep

import numpy as np
import streamlit as st
from matplotlib.figure import Figure

@st.cache_data
def get_data():
    print("get_data func")
    sleep(1.0)
    return np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)

@st.cache_data(hash_funcs={Figure: lambda _: None})
def plot(data, bins):
    print("plot func", bins)
    sleep(0.25)
    fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
    ax = fig.subplots()
    ax.hist(data, bins=bins)
    return fig

data = get_data()
bins = st.slider(value=20, min_value=10, max_value=30, step=1, label="Bins")
st.pyplot(plot(data, bins))
```

I've added

- `sleep` statements to make the functions more *expensive*.
- `print` statements to show you that the functions are only runs once for a specific set of
arguments.

#### Panel Session Cache Example

```python

> from time import sleep

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this is working as expected. I made the sleep 10 seconds and reran with cache; it's still 10 seconds.

And I'm not sure if caching matplotlib figures is a good example (if it's even possible); usually it's for fetching big data.

Author: The caching example works for me. 

In the video below I changed the `plot` func to sleep 2 secs and show a loading_indicator. You can clearly see it works (for me 😄 )

https://github.com/holoviz/panel/assets/42288570/82677e8b-ab9d-49ad-ac8c-61d94ecec9bc

I believe that caching is not only for data. I can be for storing any object that is expansive to create and used often. Also Matplotlib figures.

bins = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1)
cplot = pn.cache(plot) # Session Cache
bplot = pn.bind(cplot, data, bins)
pn.Column(bins, bplot).servable()
```

The global cache `pn.state.as_cached` is used on the `get_data` function to only load the data once
across all users sessions.

### Cache Migration Steps

To migrate

- replace `st.cache_data` with `pn.cache` to migrate your *session caching*
  - You only need to cache expensive, *bound functions*.
- replace `st.cache_resource` with `pn.state.as_cached` to migrate your *global caching*
  - You only need to cache expensive, *bound functions* and objects you want to share across user
  sessions

In the process consider separating your business logic and caching logic
(when and how to apply caching) to get more maintainable and reusable code.

## Multi Page Apps

Migrating your Streamlit multi page app to Panel is simple. In Panel each page is simply a file
that you *serve*

```bash
panel serve home.py page1.py page2.ipynb
```

You can specify the *home* page with the `--index` flag.

```bash
panel serve home.py page1.py page2.ipynb --index=home
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Something I think you're missing (and missing in my medium article) is how hard it is to dynamically creating layouts and keeping their states.

As an example, in [MusicAIl](https://github.com/ahuang11/musicail/blob/main/app.py#L312-L322) I had quite a headache dealing with session state.

My goal was to create a new pn.Card for each instrument and the notes that each instrument plays, but in Streamlit, you need to manually keep track of the IDs of each widget. In Panel state handling is *so* straightforward so I think it should be highlighted somewhere.

Author: I would really like to add a section on "session state" but it was added to Streamlit after I left that framework behind. And it's where I think their promise of a fast way to build data apps stops. They also have callbacks now. But until v0.81 I believe their mantra was "no callbacks required"

Author: Could you share some Streamlit example that shows the issue with session state.

Reviewer 2: Yeah I'll try to work on one regarding dynamic layouts.

Author: I resolve this one and add a todo item to the todo list in the first post.

# Migrate from Streamlit

This guide addresses how to migrate from Streamlit to Panel.

This guide can also be used as

- an alternative *Introduction to Panel* guide if you are already familiar with Streamlit.
- a means of comparing Streamlit and Panel on a more detailed level. You won't see the unique
features that Panel provides though.

---

## The Basics

Lets start by converting a *Hello World* application.

### Streamlit Hello World Example

```python
import streamlit as st

st.write("Hello World")
```

You *run* and *show* the app with *autoreload* via

```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

The application looks like

> ![Streamlit Hello World Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243343663-63c4c22b-ca56-4d50-95f7-3de6be69a372.png)

Reviewer: Will add shortly:

```suggestion
![Streamlit Hello World Example](../../_static/images/streamlit_hello_world.png)
```

### Panel Hello World Example

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

pn.panel("Hello World").servable()
```

You always include `pn.extension` to configure the application.

You don't have to provide any arguments to `pn.extension`, but I thought you might be interested in
configuring

- the `sizing_mode` to `stretch_width` in order to achieve responsiveness.
- a `template` to get a familiar layout with a *main* area and an (optional) *sidebar* area.

You use `pn.panel` similarly to `st.write` to *magically* display
Python objects like (markdown) strings, dataframes, plots and more. Check out the
{py:function}`pn.panel <panel.panel.base.panel>` API Reference for the
details.

You use `.servable` to add one or more Panel objects to the *template* when served as a web app.

You *serve* and *show* (i.e. open) the app in your browser with *autoreload* via

```bash
panel serve app.py --autoreload --show
```

See the [Command Line Guide](../../server/commandline.html) for more
command line options.

The application looks like

> ![Panel Hello World Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243343688-e6212faa-7b05-4686-b113-b67cd21e1063.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Hello World Example](../../_static/images/panel_hello_world.png)
```

- add `.servable` to the Panel objects you want to include in your apps *template* when served as
a web app.

For production you will also have to

- Migrate some of your app configuration to `panel serve` [command line options](../server/commandline.md) or environment. 
variables.

You won't have to

- Provide your email or
- opt out of telemetry data collection.

We have never collected or had plans to collect telemetry data from our users apps.

## Displaying Content with Panes

In Panel the objects that can display your Python objects are called *panes*. With Panels *panes*
you will be able to

- get notifications about interactions like click events on your plots and tables and react to them.
- use unique data visualization ecosystems like HoloViz, ipywidgets and VTK.

Check out the
[Panes Section](../../reference/index.md#panes) of
the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md) for the full list of
*panes*.

### Streamlit Matplotlib Example

```python
import numpy as np
import streamlit as st

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(8,4))
ax.hist(data, bins=20)

st.pyplot(fig)
```

The app looks like

> ![Streamlit Matplotlib Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243348167-4d2a3c36-59dc-4df5-b266-84dd1837f2b6.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Streamlit Matplotlib Example](../../_static/images/streamlit_mpl_example.png)
```

### Panel Matplotlib Example

You will find Panels output *panes* in `pn.pane` module.

We use Matplotlibs `Figure` interface instead of the `pyplot` interface to
avoid memory leaks if you forget to close the figure. This is all described in the
[Matplotlib Guide](../../reference/panes/Matplotlib.md).

```python
import panel as pn
import numpy as np

from matplotlib.figure import Figure

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
ax = fig.subplots()
ax.hist(data, bins=20)

pn.pane.Matplotlib(fig, format='svg', sizing_mode='scale_both').servable()
```

The app looks like

> ![Panel Matplotlib Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243348449-233d1dcc-fdd3-4907-9085-50bf0772065f.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Matplotlib Example](../../_static/images/panel_mpl_example.png)
```

### Output Migration Steps

You should

- replace your Streamlit `st.some_object` function with the corresponding Panel
`pn.pane.SomeObject` class.

You can identify the corresponding Panel *pane* in the
[Panes Section](../../reference/index.md#panes) of the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md).

## Organizing Components with Layouts

*Layouts* helps you organize your Panel *components*, i.e. *panes*, *widgets* and *layouts*.

Panel provides layouts similar to the ones you know from Streamlit and some unique ones.

Check out the [Layouts Section](../../reference/index.md#layouts) of the
[Component Gallery](../../reference/index.html) for the full list of *layouts*.

### Streamlit Layout Example

```python
import streamlit as st

col1, col2 = st.columns(2)

with col1:
    st.image("https://streamlit.io/images/brand/streamlit-logo-primary-colormark-darktext.png")
    st.write("# A faster way to build and share data apps")

with col2:
    st.image("https://panel.holoviz.org/_images/logo_horizontal_light_theme.png")
    st.write("# The powerful data exploration & web app framework for Python")
```

The app looks like

> ![Streamlit Layout Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243353648-add1e7af-26ba-428b-ba47-2f602ff3ce93.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Streamlit Layout Example](../../_static/images/streamlit_layout_example.png)
```

I would love to align the images (and texts) but I could not find functionality like *row*, *margin* or *spacing* to do this.

### Panel Layout Example

You will find Panels *layouts* in the `pn` module.

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

col1 = pn.Column(
    pn.pane.Image("https://streamlit.io/images/brand/streamlit-logo-primary-colormark-darktext.png"),
   "# A faster way to build and share data apps"
)
col2 = pn.Column(
    pn.pane.Image("https://panel.holoviz.org/_images/logo_horizontal_light_theme.png"),
    pn.panel("# The powerful data exploration & web app framework for Python"),
)

pn.Row(col1, col2).servable()
```

Panels `Column` and `Row` are *list like* objects. So you can use familiar methods like `.append`,
`.pop` and `[]` indexing when you work with them. For the details check out the
[`Column` Guide](../../reference/layouts/Column.md) and
the [`Row` Guide](../../reference/layouts/Row.md)

The app looks like

> ![Panel Layout Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243362603-45ba78a4-d67b-43bc-b3c2-386105fe6ed8.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Layout Example](../../_static/images/panel_layout_example.png)
```

With Panel you have the flexibility to use the *default, blank template*, one of the *built in templates* or even create your own *custom template*.

Here is an example with the [`FastListTemplate`](../../reference/templates/FastListTemplate.md) for illustration.

```python
import panel as pn
from datetime import datetime
from asyncio import sleep
import panel as pn
from asyncio import sleep

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="fast", theme="dark")

pn.Column(
    "# 📖 Info",
    """This app is an example of a built in template with a
*sidebar*, *header* and *main* area.

We have

- set the *header* background, site and title parameters
- set the default *theme* to `dark`

The app streams the current date and time using an *async generator function*.
""",
).servable(target="sidebar")

async def stream():
    for i in range(0, 100):
        await sleep(0.25)
        yield datetime.now()

pn.Column("The current date and time:", *(stream for i in range(5))).servable(
    target="main"
)

pn.state.template.param.update(
    site="Panel",
    title="Template Example",
    header_background="#E91E63",
    accent_base_color="#E91E63",
)
```

The app looks like

> ![Panel Template Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243438919-edce17a0-48b6-451d-9be3-d86eff5cc166.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Template Example](https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/panel_app_example.gif)
```

### Template Migration Steps

When migrating you first have to choose which template to use

- None (default)
- A built in like *vanilla*, *bootstrap*, *material* or *fast*. See the
[Templates Section](../../reference/index#templates) of the
[Components Guide](../../reference/index).
- A custom template

Then you have to configure it.

## Accepting User Inputs with Widgets

In Panel the objects that can accept user inputs are called *widgets*.

Panel provides widgets similar to the ones you know from Streamlit and some unique ones in addition.

Check out the
[Widgets Section](../../reference/index.md#widgets) of
the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md) for the full list of
*widgets*.

### Streamlit Integer Slider Example

```python
import streamlit as st

bins = st.slider(value=20, min_value=10, max_value=30, step=1, label="Bins")

st.write(bins)
```

The app looks like

> ![Streamlit Widgets Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243349378-a27fa7bd-b8dc-4b30-85f0-684a74ec40cf.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Streamlit Widgets Example](../../_static/images/streamlit_widgets_example.png)
```

### Panel Integer Slider Example

You will find Panels input *widgets* in `pn.widgets` module.

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

bins = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1, name="Bins")

pn.Column(bins, pn.pane.Str(bins)).servable()
```

If you check the type of the variables, you will notice a key difference. Streamlit's `bins` returns the value of the slider as an `integer` while Panel's `bins` returns an `IntSlider`!

To access the value of the slider in Panel, you would need to call `bins.value`.

For more info about the `IntSlider` check out the
[`IntSlider` Guide](../../reference/widgets/IntSlider.md).

The app looks like

> ![Panel Widgets Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243349394-084dfd83-a9fd-404e-9408-78831c2ca2e5.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Widgets Example](../../_static/images/panel_widgets_example.png)
```

application. But they work very differently:

- Streamlit executes the whole script *top to bottom* on user interactions.
- Panel executes specific *bound* functions on user interactions.

Panel supports reacting to many more interactions than Streamlit. For example interactions with
tables and plots.

Panels `pn.bind` provides the functionality to *bind* functions to widgets. We call the resulting
functions *bound functions*.

With Panels interactivity architecture you will be able to develop and maintain larger and more
complex apps to support more use cases.

### Basic Interactivity Example

This example will show you how to migrate code that produces a single result
and only updates the UI once the code execution has completed.

#### Streamlit Basic Interactivity Example

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import numpy as np
import streamlit as st

from matplotlib.figure import Figure

data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
ax = fig.subplots()
bins = st.slider(value=20, min_value=10, max_value=30, step=1, label="Bins")
ax.hist(data, bins=bins)

st.pyplot(fig)
```

The app looks like

> ![Streamlit Basic Interactivity Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243358295-c26e90c2-0053-4441-9b98-2426d6d1a8e1.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Streamlit Basic Interactivity Example](https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/streamlit_interactivity_example.gif)
```

The entire script is rerun *top to bottom* when you change the `bins` slider.

#### Panel Basic Interactivity Example

```python
import panel as pn
import numpy as np

from matplotlib.figure import Figure

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

def plot(data, bins):
    fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
    ax = fig.subplots()
    ax.hist(data, bins=bins)
    return fig

data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
bins_input = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1, name="Bins")
bplot = pn.bind(plot, data=data, bins=bins_input)

pn.Column(bins, bplot).servable()
```

Only the `plot` function is rerun when you change the `bins` slider. You specify that
by *binding* the `plot` function to the `bins` widget using `pn.bind`.

The app looks like

> ![Panel Basic Interactivity Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243358311-04ed5189-1a79-4932-97ea-00898c27f283.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Basic Interactivity Example](https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/panel_interactivity_example.gif)
```

This is due to fundamental differences in architectures. With Panel you will be able to
develop very smooth and performant apps.

### Multiple Updates Example

This example will show you how to migrate code that produces a single result
and updates the UI multiple times during the code execution.

#### Streamlit Multiple Updates Example

```python
import random
import time

import streamlit as st

def calculation_a():
    time.sleep(1.5)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def calculation_b():
    time.sleep(3.5)
    return random.randint(-100, 0)

st.write("# Calculation Runner")
option = st.radio("Which calculation would you like to perform?", ("A", "B"))
st.write("You chose: ", option)
if st.button("Press to run calculation"):
    with st.spinner("Running... Please wait!"):
        time_start = time.perf_counter()
        result = calculation_a() if option == "A" else calculation_b()
        time_end = time.perf_counter()
    st.write(f"""
Done!

Result: {result}

The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete
"""
    )
else:
    st.write(f"Calculation {option} did not run yet")
```

The app looks like

> ![Streamlit multiple updates example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243399616-4f172e4b-ace9-4761-b19a-757a532bafbc.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Streamlit multiple updates example](https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/streamlit_runner_example.gif)
```

#### Panel Multiple Updates Example

With Panel you will use a *generator function* to update a component multiple times during code execution.

```python
import time
import random
from textwrap import dedent

import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")
pn.state.template.param.update(site="Panel", title="Calculation Runner")

def notify_choice(calculation):
    return f"You chose: {calculation}"

def calculation_a():
    time.sleep(1.5)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def calculation_b():
    time.sleep(1.5)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def run_calculation(running, calculation):
    if not running:
        yield "Calculation did not run yet"
        return  # This will break the execution
    yield pn.Row(
        pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"),
        "Running... Please wait!",
        align="center",
    )
    if calculation == "A":
        func = calculation_a
    else:
        func = calculation_b
    time_start = time.perf_counter()
    result = func()
    time_end = time.perf_counter()

>     yield dedent(

Reviewer: Don't understand your use of dedent, it has no effect.

Author: I got it from Andrew. I've tested and can see it has no effect and is not needed. Also when I add newlines between the 3 last lines.

        f"""
        Done!
        Result: {result}
        The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete
        """
    )

calculation_input = pn.widgets.RadioBoxGroup(name="Calculation", options=["A", "B"])
run_input = pn.widgets.Button(
    name="Press to run calculation",
    icon="caret-right",
    button_type="primary",
    sizing_mode="fixed",
    width=250,
)
pn.Column(
    "Which calculation would you like to perform?",
    calculation_input,
    pn.bind(notify_choice, calculation_input),
    run_input,
    pn.bind(run_calculation, run_input, calculation_input),
).servable()
```

We use the `pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner` to indicate the activity. You find the full list of indicators in the [Indicators Section](../../reference/index.md#indicators) of the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md).

The app looks like

> ![Panel Multiple Updates Examples](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243399714-04345c38-44a8-4bc0-b111-a8d26f03484b.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Multiple Updates Examples](https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/panel_runner_example.gif)
```

        yield pn.Row(
            pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"),
            "Running... Please wait!",
            align="center",
        )
        if calculation == "A":
            func = calculation_a
        else:
            func = calculation_b
        time_start = time.perf_counter()
        result = func()
        time_end = time.perf_counter()
        yield dedent(
            f"""
            Done!
            Result: {result}
            The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete
            """
        )
    finally:
        calculation_input.loading = False
        run_input.loading = False

calculation_input = pn.widgets.RadioBoxGroup(name="Calculation", options=["A", "B"])
run_input = pn.widgets.Button(
    name="Press to run calculation",
    icon="caret-right",
    button_type="primary",
    sizing_mode="fixed",
    width=250,
)
pn.Column(
    "Which calculation would you like to perform?",
    calculation_input,
    pn.bind(notify_choice, calculation_input),
    run_input,
    pn.bind(run_calculation, run_input, calculation_input),
).servable()
```

The app looks like

> ![Panel Multiple Updates Alternative Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243402005-0e520ed0-a41f-4339-a854-14ff31cb04ce.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Multiple Updates Alternative Example](assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/panel_generator_example.gif)
```

### Multiple Results Example

Sometimes you want to output multiple results individually as soon as they are ready.

This is for example the case for Large (AI) Language Models that generates one token after the other.

#### Streamlit Multiple Results Example

```python
import random
import time

import streamlit as st

run = st.button("Run model")

def model():
    time.sleep(1)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

if not run:
    st.write("The model has not run yet")
else:
    with st.spinner("Running..."):
        for i in range(0,10):
            result = model()
            st.write(f"Result {i}: {result}")
```

The app looks like

> ![Streamlit Multiple Results Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243421817-bcd0d8d4-89af-4ef4-8924-f20a8d7a8d33.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Streamlit Multiple Results Example](https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/streamlit_multi_example.gif)
```

```python
import random
import time
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width")
run_input = pn.widgets.Button(name="Run model")

def model():
    time.sleep(1)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def results(running):
    if not running:
        yield "Calculation did not run yet"
        return  # This will break the execution
    try:
        run_input.disabled = True
        loading_indicator = pn.Row(
            pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(
                value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"
            ),
            "Running... Please wait!",
            align="center",
        )
        layout = pn.Column(loading_indicator)
        yield layout  # This will display the layout
        for i in range(0, 10):
            result = model()
            message = f"Result {i}: {result}"
            layout.append(message)
            yield layout
        layout.pop(0)
    finally:
        run_input.disabled = False
    yield layout  # This will force the UI to update

pn.Column(run_input, pn.bind(results, run_input)).servable()
```

> ![Panel Multiple Results Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243421842-b6c29bb0-b814-4d96-9918-946deea807ff.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Multiple Results Example](https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/panel_sync_multi_example.gif)
```

    print("plot func", bins)
    sleep(2)
    fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
    ax = fig.subplots()
    ax.hist(data, bins=bins)
    return fig

data = get_data()
bins = st.slider(value=20, min_value=10, max_value=30, step=1, label="Bins")
st.pyplot(plot(data, bins))
```

I've added `sleep` statements to make the functions more *expensive*.

#### Panel Session Cache Example

```python
from time import sleep

import numpy as np
import panel as pn
from matplotlib.figure import Figure

def get_data():
    print("get_data func")
    sleep(1.0)
    return np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)

def plot(data, bins):
    print("plot func", bins)
    sleep(2)
    fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
    ax = fig.subplots()
    ax.hist(data, bins=bins)
    return fig

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

data = get_data()
bins = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1)
cplot = pn.cache(plot)
bplot = pn.bind(cplot, data, bins)
pn.Column(bins, pn.panel(bplot, loading_indicator=True)).servable()
```

Please note that using `pn.cache` on `get_data` would not make a
difference since `get_data` is only run once per user session.

The app looks like

> ![Panel Session Cache Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/245366569-d1808e7b-812f-4044-8bad-73205027fd63.gif)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Panel Session Cache Example](https://assets.holoviz.org/panel/gifs/panel_cache_example.gif)
```

    time.sleep(1.5)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def run_calculation(running, calculation):
    if not running:
        yield "Calculation did not run yet"
        return  # This will break the execution
    yield pn.Row(
        pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"),
        "Running... Please wait!",
        align="center",
    )
    if calculation == "A":
        func = calculation_a
    else:
        func = calculation_b
    time_start = time.perf_counter()
    result = func()
    time_end = time.perf_counter()
    yield dedent(
        f"""
        Done!
        Result: {result}
        The function took {time_end - time_start:1.1f} seconds to complete
        """
    )

calculation_input = pn.widgets.RadioBoxGroup(name="Calculation", options=["A", "B"])
run_input = pn.widgets.Button(
    name="Press to run calculation",
    icon="caret-right",
    button_type="primary",
    sizing_mode="fixed",
    width=250,
)
pn.Column(
    "Which calculation would you like to perform?",
    calculation_input,
    pn.bind(notify_choice, calculation_input),
    run_input,
    pn.bind(run_calculation, run_input, calculation_input),
).servable()

> ).servable()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

#### Panel Multiple Results Example

With Panel you will use a *generator function* to display multiple results from code execution as soon as they are ready.

```python
import random
import time
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width")
run_input = pn.widgets.Button(name="Run model")

def model():
    time.sleep(1)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def results(running):
    if not running:
        yield "Calculation did not run yet"
        return  # This will break the execution
    try:
        run_input.disabled = True
        loading_indicator = pn.Row(
            pn.indicators.LoadingSpinner(
                value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"
            ),
            "Running... Please wait!",
            align="center",
        )
        layout = pn.Column(loading_indicator)
        yield layout  # This will display the layout
        for i in range(0, 10):
            result = model()
            message = f"Result {i}: {result}"
            layout.append(message)
            yield layout
        layout.pop(0)
    finally:
        run_input.disabled = False
    yield layout  # This will force the UI to update

> pn.Column(run_input, pn.bind(results, run_input)).servable()

Reviewer 2: This looks really scary; I wonder if it's better to not mimic the behavior of Streamlit exactly and instead
```
import random
import time
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width")

def model():
    time.sleep(1)
    return random.randint(0, 100)

def results(running):
    if not running:
        return

    layout = pn.Column()
    for i in range(0, 10):
        result = model()
        message = f"Result {i}: {result}"
        layout.append(message)
        yield layout
    yield layout  # This will force the UI to update

run_input = pn.widgets.Button(name="Run model")
pn.Column(
    run_input,
    pn.panel(pn.bind(results, run_input), loading_indicator=True),
).servable()
```

Author: I'll revert back to the original then.

your code harder to maintain and reuse for other use cases.

### Global Cache Example

This session will show you how to cache globally, i.e. across user sessions

#### Streamlit Global Cache Example

```python
from time import sleep

import numpy as np
import streamlit as st
from matplotlib.figure import Figure

@st.cache_resource
def get_data():
    print("get_data func")
    sleep(1.0)
    return np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)

@st.cache_data(hash_funcs={Figure: lambda _: None})
def plot(data, bins):
    print("plot func", bins)
    sleep(2.0)
    fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
    ax = fig.subplots()
    ax.hist(data, bins=bins)
    return fig

data = get_data()
bins = st.slider(value=20, min_value=10, max_value=30, step=1, label="Bins")
st.pyplot(plot(data, bins))
```

The global cache `st.cache_resource` is used on the `get_data` function to only load the data once
across all users sessions.

#### Panel Global Cache Example

```python
from time import sleep

import numpy as np
import panel as pn
from matplotlib.figure import Figure

def get_data():
    print("data func")
    sleep(1.0)
    return np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we show decorating the function with `@pn.cache`?

Author: (I think it will be simpler for users coming from Streamlit to use it as decorator)

Reviewer 2: Since it's used in Streamlit, I think it's good to also use a decorator here. Perhaps you can add a sentence that mentions it doesn't have to be a deco?

Author: To me that makes sense. I will change.

features that Panel provides though.

---

## The Basics

Lets start by converting a *Hello World* application.

### Streamlit Hello World Example

```python
import streamlit as st

st.write("Hello World")
```

You *run* and *show* the app with *autoreload* via

```bash
streamlit run app.py
```

The application looks like

![Streamlit Hello World Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243343663-63c4c22b-ca56-4d50-95f7-3de6be69a372.png)

### Panel Hello World Example

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

pn.panel("Hello World").servable()
```

You always include `pn.extension` to configure the application.

You don't have to provide any arguments to `pn.extension`, but I thought you might be interested in
configuring

- the `sizing_mode` to `stretch_width` in order to achieve responsiveness.
- a `template` to get a familiar layout with a *main* area and an (optional) *sidebar* area.

You use `pn.panel` similarly to `st.write` to *magically* display
Python objects like (markdown) strings, dataframes, plots and more. Check out the

> [`pn.panel` API Reference](https://panel.holoviz.org/api/panel.pane.html#panel.pane.panel) for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{py:function}`pn.panel <panel.panel.base.panel>` API Reference for the
```

details.

You use `.servable` to add one or more Panel objects to the *template* when served as a web app.

You *serve* and *show* (i.e. open) the app in your browser with *autoreload* via

```bash
panel serve app.py --autoreload --show
```

> See the [Command Line Guide](https://panel.holoviz.org/how_to/server/commandline.html) for more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the [Command Line Guide](../../server/commandline.html) for more
```

The application looks like

![Panel Hello World Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243343688-e6212faa-7b05-4686-b113-b67cd21e1063.png)

### Basic Migration Steps

You should replace

- `import streamlit as st` with `import panel as pn` and
- `st.write` with `pn.panel`.

You will also have to

- add `pn.extension` to configure your Panel application via arguments like `sizing_mode` and `template`.
- add `.servable` to the Panel objects you want to include in your apps *template* when served as
a web app.

For production you will also have to

- Migrate some of your app configuration to `panel serve` command line options or environment
variables.

You won't have to

- Provide your email or
- opt out of telemetry data collection.

We have never collected or had plans to collect telemetry data from our users apps.

## Displaying Content with Panes

In Panel the objects that can display your Python objects are called *panes*. With Panels *panes*
you will be able to

- get notifications about interactions like click events on your plots and tables and react to them.
- use unique data visualization ecosystems like HoloViz, ipywidgets and VTK.

Check out the

> [Panes Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#panes) of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Panes Section](../../reference/index.md#panes) of
```

> the [Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html) for the full list of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md) for the full list of
```

*panes*.

### Streamlit Matplotlib Example

```python
import numpy as np
import streamlit as st

import matplotlib.pyplot as plt

data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
fig, ax = plt.subplots(figsize=(8,4))
ax.hist(data, bins=20)

st.pyplot(fig)
```

The app looks like

![Streamlit Matplotlib Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243348167-4d2a3c36-59dc-4df5-b266-84dd1837f2b6.png)

### Panel Matplotlib Example

You will find Panels output *panes* in `pn.pane` module.

We use Matplotlibs `Figure` interface instead of the `pyplot` interface to
avoid memory leaks if you forget to close the figure. This is all described in the

> [Matplotlib Guide](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/panes/Matplotlib.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Matplotlib Guide](../../reference/panes/Matplotlib.md).
```

```python
import panel as pn
import numpy as np

from matplotlib.figure import Figure

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

data = np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)
fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
ax = fig.subplots()
ax.hist(data, bins=20)

pn.pane.Matplotlib(fig, format='svg', sizing_mode='scale_both').servable()
```

The app looks like

![Panel Matplotlib Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243348449-233d1dcc-fdd3-4907-9085-50bf0772065f.png)

### Output Migration Steps

You should

- replace your Streamlit `st.some_object` function with the corresponding Panel
`pn.pane.SomeObject` class.

You can identify the corresponding Panel *pane* in the

> [Panes Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#panes) of the
> [Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Panes Section](../../reference/index.md#panes) of the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md).
```

## Organizing Components with Layouts

*Layouts* helps you organize your Panel *components*, i.e. *panes*, *widgets* and *layouts*.

Panel provides layouts similar to the ones you know from Streamlit and some unique ones.

> Check out the [Layouts Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#layouts) of the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [Layouts Section](../../reference/index.md#layouts) of the
```

    st.image("https://panel.holoviz.org/_images/logo_horizontal_light_theme.png")
    st.write("# The powerful data exploration & web app framework for Python")
```

The app looks like

![Streamlit Layout Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243353648-add1e7af-26ba-428b-ba47-2f602ff3ce93.png)

I would love to align the images (and texts) but I could not find functionality like *row*, *margin* or *spacing* to do this.

### Panel Layout Example

You will find Panels *layouts* in the `pn` module.

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

col1 = pn.Column(
    pn.pane.Image("https://streamlit.io/images/brand/streamlit-logo-primary-colormark-darktext.png"),
   "# A faster way to build and share data apps"
)
col2 = pn.Column(
    pn.pane.Image("https://panel.holoviz.org/_images/logo_horizontal_light_theme.png"),
    pn.panel("# The powerful data exploration & web app framework for Python"),
)

pn.Row(col1, col2).servable()
```

Panels `Column` and `Row` are *list like* objects. So you can use familiar methods like `.append`,
`.pop` and `[]` indexing when you work with them. For the details check out the

> [`Column` Guide](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/layouts/Column.html) and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`Column` Guide](../../reference/layouts/Column.rst) and
```

> the [`Row` Guide](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/layouts/Row.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [`Row` Guide](../../reference/layouts/Row.rst)
```

The app looks like

![Panel Layout Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243362603-45ba78a4-d67b-43bc-b3c2-386105fe6ed8.png)

### Layout Migration Steps

You should

- replace your Streamlit `st.some_layout` function with the corresponding Panel
`pn.SomeLayout` class.

You can identify the relevant layout to migrate to in the

> [Layouts Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#layouts) of the
> [Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Layouts Section](../../reference/index.md#layouts) of the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md).
```

## Adding Style with Templates

Streamlit always uses the same *template* with a *main* and *sidebar* area to style and layout your app.

With Panel you have the flexibility to use the *default, blank template*, one of the *built in templates* or even create your own *custom template*.

> Here is an example with the [`FastListTemplate`](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/templates/FastListTemplate.html) for illustration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here is an example with the [`FastListTemplate`](../../reference/templates/FastListTemplate.md) for illustration.
```

The app streams the current date and time using an *async generator function*.
""",
).servable(target="sidebar")

async def stream():
    for i in range(0, 100):
        await sleep(0.25)
        yield datetime.now()

pn.Column("The current date and time:", *(stream for i in range(5))).servable(
    target="main"
)

pn.state.template.param.update(
    site="Panel",
    title="Template Example",
    header_background="#E91E63",
    accent_base_color="#E91E63",
)
```

The app looks like

![Panel Template Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243438919-edce17a0-48b6-451d-9be3-d86eff5cc166.gif)

### Template Migration Steps

When migrating you first have to choose which template to use

- None (default)
- A built in like *vanilla*, *bootstrap*, *material* or *fast*. See the
[Templates Section](../../reference/index#templates) of the
[Components Guide](../../reference/index).
- A custom template

Then you have to configure it.

## Accepting User Inputs with Widgets

In Panel the objects that can accept user inputs are called *widgets*.

Panel provides widgets similar to the ones you know from Streamlit and some unique ones in addition.

Check out the

> [Widgets Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#widgets) of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Widgets Section](../../reference/index.md#widgets) of
```

> the [Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html) for the full list of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md) for the full list of
```

*widgets*.

### Streamlit Integer Slider Example

```python
import streamlit as st

bins = st.slider(value=20, min_value=10, max_value=30, step=1, label="Bins")

st.write(bins)
```

The app looks like

![Streamlit Widgets Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243349378-a27fa7bd-b8dc-4b30-85f0-684a74ec40cf.png)

### Panel Integer Slider Example

You will find Panels input *widgets* in `pn.widgets` module.

```python
import panel as pn

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

bins = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1, name="Bins")

pn.Column(bins, pn.pane.Str(bins)).servable()
```

If you check the type of the variables, you will notice a key difference. Streamlit's `bins` returns the value of the slider as an `integer` while Panel's `bins` returns an `IntSlider`!

To access the value of the slider in Panel, you would need to call `bins.value`.

For more info about the `IntSlider` check out the

> [`IntSlider` Guide](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/widgets/IntSlider.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`IntSlider` Guide](../../reference/widgets/IntSlider.md).
```

The app looks like

![Panel Widgets Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243349394-084dfd83-a9fd-404e-9408-78831c2ca2e5.png)

### Input Migration Steps

You should

- replace your Streamlit `st.some_widget` function with the corresponding Panel
`pn.widgets.SomeWidget` class.

You can identify the corresponding widget via the

> [Widgets Section](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#widgets) of the
> [Component Gallery](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Widgets Section](../../reference/index.md#widgets) of the [Component Gallery](../../reference/index.md).
```

                value=True, width=50, height=50, align="center"
            ),
            "Running... Please wait!",
            align="center",
        )
        layout = pn.Column(loading_indicator)
        yield layout  # This will display the layout
        for i in range(0, 10):
            result = model()
            message = f"Result {i}: {result}"
            layout.append(message)
            yield layout
        layout.pop(0)
    finally:
        run_input.disabled = False
    yield layout  # This will force the UI to update

pn.Column(run_input, pn.bind(results, run_input)).servable()
```

![Panel Multiple Results Example](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42288570/243421842-b6c29bb0-b814-4d96-9918-946deea807ff.gif)

### Interactivity Migration Steps

You should

- Move your business logic to functions. Business logic can be code to load data,
create plots, calculate the mass of the milky way, train models, do inference etc.
- Use `pn.bind` to specify which functions are bound to which widgets.
- Use generator functions (`yield`) if you want to update the UI multiple times during the
  code execution.
- Indicate activity if needed. You can use one of

> [Panels Indicators](https://panel.holoviz.org/reference/index.html#indicators) and/ or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Panels Indicators](../../reference/index.md#indicators) and/ or
```

the `.disabled`+`.loading` parameter on Panels components.

## Caching

One of the key concepts in Streamlit is *caching*. In Streamlit your entire script is rerun
*top to bottom* on user interactions. Without caching you would be
reconnecting to your database, reloading your dataset and rerunning your expensive calculation
every time a user clicks a `Button` or changes a `slider` value. This would make your application
very slow.

In Panel only your *bound functions* are rerun on user interactions.

In Panel you would use the

- *session cache* (`pn.cache`) to speed up expensive, bound functions for a user session
- *global cache* (`pn.state.as_cached`) to speed up expensive, bound functions or to share
Python objects globally. I.e. across user sessions.

> Check out the [Cache How-To Guides](https://panel.holoviz.org/how_to/caching/index.html) for the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check out the [Cache How-To Guides](../caching/index.md) for the
```

def get_data():
    print("get_data func")
    sleep(1.0)
    return np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)

@st.cache_data(hash_funcs={Figure: lambda _: None})
def plot(data, bins):
    print("plot func", bins)
    sleep(2.0)
    fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
    ax = fig.subplots()
    ax.hist(data, bins=bins)
    return fig

data = get_data()
bins = st.slider(value=20, min_value=10, max_value=30, step=1, label="Bins")
st.pyplot(plot(data, bins))
```

The global cache `st.cache_resource` is used on the `get_data` function to only load the data once
across all users sessions.

#### Panel Global Cache Example

```python
from time import sleep

import numpy as np
import panel as pn
from matplotlib.figure import Figure

def get_data():
    print("data func")
    sleep(1.0)
    return np.random.normal(1, 1, size=100)

def plot(data, bins):
    print("plot func", bins)
    sleep(2.0)
    fig = Figure(figsize=(8,4))
    ax = fig.subplots()
    ax.hist(data, bins=bins)
    return fig

pn.extension(sizing_mode="stretch_width", template="bootstrap")

data = pn.state.as_cached(key="data", fn=get_data) # Global Cache
bins = pn.widgets.IntSlider(value=20, start=10, end=30, step=1)

> cplot = pn.cache(plot) # Session Cache

Author: `pn.cache` only works for a session. And `pn.state.as_cached` only works for a single value.

How would you recommend I turn the line `cplot=pn.cache(plot)` into something that makes the function cache globally, i.e. across all user sessions @philippjfr ? Are we not missing the utility function to do that?

Reviewer: >pn.cache only works for a session

This is news to me. What you're asking should already be the case.

Author: I will report it as a bug then

Author: I have reported this as a bug in https://github.com/holoviz/panel/issues/5109
